Common: BLHeli and dshot improvements (#4240)
ArduPilot/ardupilot_wiki: common/source/docs/common-blheli32-passthru.rst

.. _common-blheli32-passthru:

BLHeli32 and BLHeli_S ESCs
==========================

> The BLHeli protocol is built on the :ref:`DShot <common-dshot-escs>` protocol and offers these additional features

Author: I'm not sure I agree actually.. maybe we should remove the word "protocol" because I think BLHeli is ESC software and it's accompanying configuration application.

I don't think BLHeli itself actually allows you to select which protocol the ESCs will use (PWM, OneShot, DShot).  I agree it does allow configuration of timing and motor direction.

> The BLHeli protocol is built on the :ref:`DShot <common-dshot-escs>` protocol and offers these additional features

Reviewer: we are both wrong...you can select to disable the PWM /Oneshot 125 compatibility in a BLHeli_S ESC...but evidentially not a BLHeli32 ESC..there is not configuration option for it......but I dont think its a big enough deal to even mention....so perhaps this: 
```suggestion
The BLHeli firmware and configuration applications were developed to allow the configuration of ESCs and provide additional features. ESCs with this firmware allow parameters such as timing, motor direction, LEDs, motor drive frequency, etc. to be configured. BLHeli firmware  has many variations, such as BLHeli, BLHeli_S, BLHeli32, etc. 
```

> The BLHeli protocol is built on the :ref:`DShot <common-dshot-escs>` protocol and offers these additional features

Author: ok thanks.  changed to something very close to the suggestion.

- Pass-Through support the BLHeli application to be used to configure the ESCs while remaining connected to the autopilot

> - :ref:`Reversible DShot <blheli32-reversible-dshot>` meaning the motor can be spun in either direction

Reviewer: this is commonly called "3D mode"...should be mentioned

Author: yes, totally agree. added "aka 3D mode".

- :ref:`Bi-directional Dshot <bidir-dshot>` allows the ESCs to send RPM back to the autopilot without the need for an additional telemetry connection
- :ref:`ESC Telemetry <blheli32-esc-telemetry>` allowing the ESCs to send RPM, voltage and current information back to the autopilot so that it can be logged, viewed in real-time or even allow the removal of a :ref:`battery monitor <esc-telemetry-based-battery-monitor>`

Before attempting to use BLHeli please follow the :ref:`DShot setup instructions <common-dshot-escs>`

"BLHeli" covers covers multiple (sometimes competing) projects providing ESCs firmware and accompanying configuration software

> - BLHeli was the original open source software that is no longer maintained and is not available on modern ESCs

Author: So I discussed the various options with @andyp1per and my understanding was that there were actually two versions of "BLHeli_S".. the "JESC" version and "BlueJay" which I've mentioned below.

> - BLHeli was the original open source software that is no longer maintained and is not available on modern ESCs

Reviewer: But a user will  get an ESC that only mentions BLHeli_S..... the standard firmware....not JESC or Bluejay....which are backports to a normal BLHeli_S ESC...as well as BLHeli-M...all to provide bi-dir to BLHEL_S ESCs for RPM filtering...here is an article that explains the differences:https://brushlesswhoop.com/betaflight-rpm-filter/

> - BLHeli was the original open source software that is no longer maintained and is not available on modern ESCs

Author: ok txs.  Let's get @andyp1per to chip in here because I think I wrote what he told me..

> - BLHeli was the original open source software that is no longer maintained and is not available on modern ESCs

Reviewer: I expect vendors will start offering BLHeli_S ESCs flashed with those versions, if not already, so perhaps we need to list all variations of BLHeli_S: BLHeli_S standard, BLHeli_S-JESC, etc.?

> - BLHeli was the original open source software that is no longer maintained and is not available on modern ESCs

Reviewer 2: You should mention vanilla BLHeli_S - it does not have RPM feedback but is installed by default on BLHeli_S ECSs - it is the "official" BLHeli_S firmware

> - BLHeli was the original open source software that is no longer maintained and is not available on modern ESCs

Author: BLHeli_S is now added to the list. txs

- `BLHeli32 <https://github.com/bitdump/BLHeli>`__ is closed source and based on 32bit ARM MCUs.  All modern BLHeli ESCs use BLHeli32
- `BLHeli_S JESC <https://jflight.net>`__ is paid, closed source software and 16bit allowing it to run on lower end hardware
- `BLHeli_S BlueJay <https://github.com/mathiasvr/bluejay>`__ is free, open source software and 16bit

Pass-Through Support
--------------------

The Pass-Through feature allows BLHeli32 and BLHeli_S ESCs to be upgraded and configured using the corresponding BLHeliSuite32 or BLHeliSuite application (running on the user's PC) while the ESCs remain connected to the autopilot.  To use this feature please follow these steps

- Download and install `BLHeliSuite32 <https://github.com/bitdump/BLHeli/releases>`__ (for use with BLHeli32 ESCs), `BLHeliSuite <https://github.com/bitdump/BLHeli>`__ (for BLHeli_S ESC) or `JESC configurator <https://github.com/jflight-public/jesc-configurator/releases>`__ (for use with BLHeli_S JESC) on your PC
- Connect your PC to the autopilot using a USB cable and then connect with a ground station (e.g. Mission Planner, QGC).

> - Set :ref:`SERVO_BLH_AUTO <SERVO_BLH_AUTO>` to 1 to automatically enable pass-through on all outputs configured as motors (e.g. :ref:`SERVOn_FUNCTION <SERVO9_FUNCTION>` = "motor1", "motor2", etc).  For most multicopter and quadplane vehicles this will do the right thing.  For other outputs (e.g. those with :ref:`SERVOn_FUNCTION <SERVO9_FUNCTION>` set to 70 ("throttle"), 73 ("throttle left") or 74 ("throttle right") you will need to set :ref:`SERVO_BLH_MASK <SERVO_BLH_MASK>` to exactly specify which servo outputs pass-through should be enabled for

Author: ok, i struggled a bit to restructure the sentence but hopefully fixed.

- If your PC is connected to the autopilot using a telemetry radio (instead of using USB cable as recommended above) set :ref:`SERVO_BLH_PORT <SERVO_BLH_PORT>` to the autopilot port connected to the telemetry radio.  Beware that this is does NOT specify the port used for :ref:`ESC telemetry <blheli32-esc-telemetry>` feedback to your autopilot!

> - Ensure the safety switch is pushed (or disabled by setting :ref:`BRD_SAFETYENABLE <BRD_SAFETYENABLE>` = 0)

Author: fixed, txs

.. note::
   ArduPilot firmware supports the pass-through protocol with up-to-date BLHeli32 firmware and BLHeliSuite32, or BLHeli_S firmware and BLHeliSuite only.

.. warning::
   For pass-through to function, the autopilot must be configured to use one of the DShot protocols.  If you wish to eventually use one of the other protocols (e.g. PWM, OneShot125) that the ESC supports, you may still configure the ESCs using Pass-Through (e.g. change motor directions, set min/max values, etc) but then finally re-configure the autopilot to *not* use DShot.  Once the autopilot and ESCs are rebooted the ESC should auto-detect that the ESCs are no longer using DShot.

..  youtube:: np7xXY_e5sA
    :width: 100%

.. _blheli32-reversible-dshot:

Reversible DShot ESCs
---------------------

Currently, only BLHeli32 and BLHeli_S capable reversible DShot ESCs are supported. In order to use one, the output which drives it must be designated with the appropriate bit in the :ref:`SERVO_BLH_3DMASK<SERVO_BLH_3DMASK>` bitmask parameter. This will map the outputs 1000-1500-2000 values to the correct digital values for the ESC to provide FullReverse-Idle-FullForward range operation, respectively.

> If :ref:`DShot commands <dshot-commands>` have been enabled then ArduPilot will automatically configure the ESCs to reversible mode at startup.  If DShot commands have not been configured you must manually configure the ESCs' "Motor Direction" to "Bidirectional 3D" as shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If :ref:`DShot commands <dshot-commands>` have been enabled then ArduPilot will automatically configure the ESCs to reversible mode (3D mode) at startup, according to the :ref:`SERVO_BLH_3DMASK<SERVO_BLH_3DMASK>`. Enabling :ref:`DShot commands <dshot-commands>`  will allow the other DShot commands to be sent to any other ESC configured as DShot by the DShot mask parameters discussed in :ref:`DShot setup instructions <common-dshot-escs>` . 

 Otherwise, you must manually configure the ESCs' "Motor Direction" to "Bidirectional 3D" as shown below.
```

Author: txs, updated the wording as suggested.

  .. image:: ../../../images/blheli-reversible-dshot.png
    :target: ../_images/blheli-reversible-dshot.png

> In a similar fashion, normal output rotation direction can be reversed by setting :ref:`SERVO_BLH_RVMASK<SERVO_BLH_RVMASK>` without any changes needing to be made through ESC configuration software (e.g. BLHeliSuite). This can also be used on ESCs with forward and reversed active operation, ie reversible ESCs, to set the "forward" direction's rotation.

Reviewer: this does not belong in the reversible section...its a param in every BLHeli esc

Author: yes, I agree.  This is actually an existing issue but in any case I've removed these lines and instead, back on the DShot page's DShot commands section I've added a "(see :ref:`SERVO_BLH_RVMASK <SERVO_BLH_RVMASK>` parameter)".  It is fairly straight forward so perhaps we don't need a length explanation.

Alternatively I could create a new short section on this BLHeli page but I'm not sure that it is actually BLHeli related.

- :ref:`SERVO_BLH_AUTO <SERVO_BLH_AUTO>` = 1 to enable automatic mapping of multirotor motors for BLHeli32 pass-through and telemetry support. for most multirotor and quadplane users this will do the right thing. If using BLHeli32 ESCs on non-multirotor motors with the respective SERVOn_FUNCTION set to 70 (=throttle), 73 (=throttle left) or 74 (=throttle right), you will need to further specify the used outputs as follows:

- :ref:`SERVO_BLH_MASK <SERVO_BLH_MASK>` : a bitmap used to enable BLHeli32 pass-through and telemetry support on non-multirotor motors and / or exactly specify which servo outputs you want to enable pass-through and telemetry on (if available in ESC).

- :ref:`SERVO_BLH_OTYPE<SERVO_BLH_OTYPE>` : This needs to be set to the protocol being used for the DShot protocol being used on those additional outputs if not the same as the normal copter style motor outputs.

> - :ref:`SERVO_BLH_TRATE <SERVO_BLH_TRATE>` defaults to 10. this enables telemetry at a 10hz update rate from the ESC.

Author: txs.  It's an existing issue but I've added, "and normally does not need to be changed"

> - :ref:`SERVO_BLH_POLES <SERVO_BLH_POLES>` defaults to 14 which applies to the majority of brushless motors. Adjust as required if you're using motors with a pole count other than 14 to calculate true motor shaft RPM from ESC's e-field RPM.

Author: This is existing wording and I think the "which applies to the majority of brushless motors" is pretty close to telling people that they don't need to change it.  I can add, "and normally does not need to be changed" if you like though.

> - :ref:`SERVO_BLH_POLES <SERVO_BLH_POLES>` defaults to 14 which applies to the majority of brushless motors. Adjust as required if you're using motors with a pole count other than 14 to calculate true motor shaft RPM from ESC's e-field RPM.

Reviewer: sorry referring to line 91   TRATE...poles have some explanation...but I like adding it to that one also...

> - :ref:`SERVO_BLH_POLES <SERVO_BLH_POLES>` defaults to 14 which applies to the majority of brushless motors. Adjust as required if you're using motors with a pole count other than 14 to calculate true motor shaft RPM from ESC's e-field RPM.

Author: ok, added to TRATE and POLES.

In addition, some telemetry values can be displayed on the integrated :ref:`on-board OSD <common-osd-overview>`, if your autopilot has one.

.. _esc-telemetry-based-battery-monitor:

Use as Battery Monitor
======================

By setting a battery monitor instance to BLHeli32 ESC  type (for example :ref:`BATT2_MONITOR<BATT2_MONITOR>` = 9), all connected BLHeli32 ESCs with connected telemetry wiring to the configured autopilot serial port, will be aggregated as a single source. The voltages reported will be averaged, the currents totaled, and the consumed current accumulated.

.. _bidir-dshot:

Bi-directional Dshot
====================

Newer versions of BLHeli32 (32.7) and BLHeli_S (16.73) support returning motor RPM values over the Dshot signal line. Supporting bi-directional Dshot requires exclusive use of one or more DMA channels and thus not all versions of ArduPilot support it. Versions that support bi-directional Dshot natively are `BeastH7`, `BeastF7` and `KakuteF7Mini`, other firmware versions end in "-bdshot" to indicate support for bi-directional Dshot.

Setup
-----

> First ensure that you have an appropriate version of BLHeli32 or BLHeli_S installed on your ESCs. The majority of ESCs do not come pre-installed with these versions. The official 32.7 version of BLHeli32 supports bi-directional Dshot. Official versions of BLHeli_S do not support bi-directional Dshot, you will need to either buy a version from `JESC <https://jflight.net/index.php?route=common/home&language=en-gb>`__ or use the unofficial version from `JazzMaverick <https://github.com/JazzMaverick/BLHeli/tree/JazzMaverick-patch-1/BLHeli_S%20SiLabs/Hex%20files%20%2016.73>`__. If you try and enable bi-directional Dshot with the wrong firmware version then unpredictable motor operation can occur.

Reviewer: most people wont know how to check the version without instructions....the ESC should say its bi-directional....flashing the firmware is a very advanced user topic and would need a new wiki page....IF passthrough works for flashing, which I do not know...

Reviewer: in Betaflight there is a requirement to use the proper Dshot rate for the notch filter's use depending on loop rates...I dont know if there is such a requirement in our notch filters( I assume we use the report from the designated bi-dir escs for mode 3)...if so, it should be mentioned here in the mode 3 notch docs

Author: This section has just been moved from the BLHeli telemetry page (https://ardupilot.org/plane/docs/common-dshot-blheli32-telemetry.html) with no changes because I haven't yet tested it.  Still, I've added a picture of the blheli suite with some red squares around buttons that need pressing in order to check the version.

It is possible to update the firmware using blheli pass-through but I haven't added instructions for that.

I'll leave @andyp1per to respond on the notch filter requirements.

Reviewer 2: Firmware flashing works fine

Notch requirements should not be affected by dshot rate but DShot600 is the most tested. We cannot run at a high enough loop rate where the dshot rate matters

.. _common-blheli32-passthru:

BLHeli32 and BLHeli_S ESCs
==========================

The BLHeli firmware and configuration applications were developed to allow the configuration of ESCs and provide additional features. ESCs with this firmware allow configuring timing, motor direction, LEDs, motor drive frequency, etc.  Before attempting to use BLHeli please follow the :ref:`DShot setup instructions <common-dshot-escs>`.

This page includes setup instructions for the following features

- Pass-Through support allows the BLHeli application to be used to configure the ESCs while remaining connected to the autopilot
- :ref:`Reversible DShot <blheli32-reversible-dshot>` (aka 3D mode) allows the motor to be spun in either direction
- :ref:`Bi-directional Dshot <bidir-dshot>` allows the ESCs to send RPM back to the autopilot without the need for an additional telemetry connection

> - :ref:`ESC Telemetry <blheli32-esc-telemetry>` allowing the ESCs to send RPM, voltage and current information back to the autopilot so that it can be logged, viewed in real-time or even allow the removal of a :ref:`battery monitor <esc-telemetry-based-battery-monitor>`

Reviewer 2: should be "allows the" to be consistent with the other bullets

Author: changed to "allows" txs.

"BLHeli" covers covers multiple (sometimes competing) projects providing ESCs firmware and accompanying configuration software

- BLHeli was the original open source software that is no longer maintained and is not available on modern ESCs

> - `BLHeli32 <https://github.com/bitdump/BLHeli>`__ is closed source and based on 32bit ARM MCUs.  All modern BLHeli ESCs use BLHeli32

Reviewer 2: This URL also includes vanilla BLHeli_S (version 16.7 - the last official version)

Author: ok, fixed after discussion with @andyp1per

- Set :ref:`SERVO_BLH_AUTO <SERVO_BLH_AUTO>` to 1 to automatically enable pass-through on all outputs configured as motors (e.g. :ref:`SERVOx_FUNCTION <SERVO9_FUNCTION>` = "Motor1", "Motor2", etc) for multicopters and quadplanes or throttle (e.g. those with :ref:`SERVOx_FUNCTION <SERVO9_FUNCTION>` set to 70 ("throttle"), 73 ("throttle left") or 74 ("throttle right")) on rovers.  For most multicopters, quadplanes and rovers this will do the right thing but for planes, set :ref:`SERVO_BLH_MASK <SERVO_BLH_MASK>` to enable pass-through on the appropriate servo outputs.
- If your PC is connected to the autopilot using a telemetry radio (instead of using USB cable as recommended above) set :ref:`SERVO_BLH_PORT <SERVO_BLH_PORT>` to the autopilot port connected to the telemetry radio.  Beware that this is does NOT specify the port used for :ref:`ESC telemetry <blheli32-esc-telemetry>` feedback to your autopilot!
- If using a safety switch ensure it is pushed (or disabled by setting :ref:`BRD_SAFETYENABLE <BRD_SAFETYENABLE>` = 0)
- Disconnect the ground station (but leave the USB cable connected)

> - Start the ESC configuration software and connect to the autopilot's COM port by selecting "BLHeli32 Bootloader (Betaflight/Cleanflight)" from the interfaces menu.  You should be able to upgrade and configure all connected ESCs

Reviewer 2: Should mention that you need to hit "connect" followed by "read"

Author: added txs!

   For pass-through to function, the autopilot must be configured to use one of the DShot protocols.  If you wish to eventually use one of the other protocols (e.g. PWM, OneShot125) that the ESC supports, you may still configure the ESCs using Pass-Through (e.g. change motor directions, set min/max values, etc) but then finally re-configure the autopilot to *not* use DShot.  Once the autopilot and ESCs are rebooted the ESC should auto-detect that the ESCs are no longer using DShot.

..  youtube:: np7xXY_e5sA
    :width: 100%

.. _blheli32-reversible-dshot:

Reversible DShot ESCs
---------------------

Reversible DShot (aka 3D mode) allows the motor to be spun in either direction which is important for Rover, Boats and :ref:`Planes with reverse thrust <plane:reverse-thrust-setup>`.

Currently, only BLHeli32 and BLHeli_S capable reversible DShot ESCs are supported. In order to use one, the output which drives it must be designated with the appropriate bit in the :ref:`SERVO_BLH_3DMASK<SERVO_BLH_3DMASK>` bitmask parameter. This will map the outputs 1000-1500-2000 values to the correct digital values for the ESC to provide FullReverse-Idle-FullForward range operation, respectively.

> If :ref:`DShot commands <dshot-commands>` have been enabled then ArduPilot will automatically configure the ESCs to reversible mode (3D mode) at startup, according to the :ref:`SERVO_BLH_3DMASK<SERVO_BLH_3DMASK>`. Enabling :ref:`DShot commands <dshot-commands>` will allow the other DShot commands to be sent to any other ESC configured as DShot by the DShot mask parameters discussed in :ref:`DShot setup instructions <common-dshot-escs>`.

Reviewer 2: You should mention that you cannot do both - you must not set reversible in BLHeliSuite if using this feature with dshot commands

Author: really?  I've been doing both and it works OK.

Otherwise, you must manually configure the ESCs' "Motor Direction" to "Bidirectional 3D" as shown below.

  .. image:: ../../../images/blheli-reversible-dshot.png
    :target: ../_images/blheli-reversible-dshot.png
    :width: 450px

.. note:: Currently, ArduPilot only supports the use of reversible ESCs for Plane and Rover, not Copter.

.. _blheli32-esc-telemetry:

ESC Telemetry
-------------

> If the ESC has this capability, it allows monitoring and logging of performance data that previously required additional sensors (like power modules and RPM sensors). The detailed data provided by every ESC allows real-time decisions and individual ESC or motor performance tuning and failure analysis. Note that a given ESC may or may not have a specific sensor's data transmitted via telemetry. It is common for 4 in 1 escs to provide voltage and current sensors but not transmit the data via telemetry, but rather by direct connection to the autopilot. Check the ESC data sheet and connection information for details.

Reviewer 2: Should note that ESC telemetry is specific to dshot - it will not work with PWM/OneShot etc even if the ESC has the signal wire

Author: Txs.  I don't think we actually need to mention PWM or OneShot because right at the top of this page it says, "Before attempting to use BLHeli please follow the DShot setup instructions".  I think it could actually muddy the waters to mention them.. we just have to focus on concise and precise instructions to get it working.. if users start doing things that are not described .. well.. that's hard to protect against.

 
.. note:: ArduPilot does not currently support the polling of the ESCs for telemetry data via throttle idle messages over the signal line in non DShot protocols.

Connecting the ESCs Telemetry wire
----------------------------------

.. image:: ../../../images/dshot-pixhawk.jpg
    :target: ../_images/dshot-pixhawk.jpg
    :width: 600px

Connect all ESC telemetry wires to a single serial port's RX pin on the autopilot (above diagram uses Serial5 as an example).  A pin or wire for ESC telemetry is pre-soldered on most BLHeli32 ESCs. If the wire isn't pre-soldered you will need to solder it yourself. CubePilot serial port pinsouts can be found :ref:`here <common-thecube-overview>`.

Set the following parameters to enable BLHeli32 telemetry feedback to the autopilot's serial port:

- :ref:`SERIALx_PROTOCOL <SERIAL5_PROTOCOL>` 16 (= ESC telemetry) where "x" is the autopilot serial port number connected to the ESCs telemetry wire.  The mapping between serial port numbering and UART physical ports for you autopilot should be documented in its description page linked :ref:`here <common-autopilots>`.

> - Set :ref:`SERVO_BLH_AUTO <SERVO_BLH_AUTO>` to 1 to automatically enable pass-through on all outputs configured as motors (e.g. :ref:`SERVOx_FUNCTION <SERVO9_FUNCTION>` = "Motor1", "Motor2", etc) for multicopters and quadplanes or throttle (e.g. those with :ref:`SERVOx_FUNCTION <SERVO9_FUNCTION>` set to 70 ("throttle"), 73 ("throttle left") or 74 ("throttle right")) on rovers.  For most multicopters, quadplanes and rovers this will do the right thing but for planes, you will need to further specify the used outputs as follows:

Reviewer 2: auto is not necessary for telemetry to work

Author: OK.  I guess if SERVO_BLH_AUTO is not required then SERVO_BLH_MASK, SERVO_BLH_OTYPE are also not required.

Users should have already followed instructions for Dshot so MOT_PWM_TYPE should already be set.

  - :ref:`SERVO_BLH_MASK <SERVO_BLH_MASK>` : a bitmap used to enable BLHeli32 pass-through and telemetry support on non-multirotor motors and / or exactly specify which servo outputs you want to enable pass-through and telemetry on (if available in ESC).

  - :ref:`SERVO_BLH_OTYPE<SERVO_BLH_OTYPE>` : This needs to be set to the protocol being used for the DShot protocol being used on those additional outputs if not the same as the normal copter style motor outputs.

> - :ref:`SERVO_BLH_TRATE <SERVO_BLH_TRATE>` defaults to 10 and normally does not need to be changed. this enables telemetry at a 10Hz update rate from the ESC.

Reviewer 2: Needs to be changed if this is being used to drive the harmonic notch. Needs to be as high as possible without saturating the link - 100Hz is about the practical maximum for a quad

Author: ok thanks.  I've added this line:

If using the :ref:`harmonic notch feature <common-imu-notch-filtering>` this can be raised to 100.

- :ref:`SERVO_BLH_POLES <SERVO_BLH_POLES>` defaults to 14 which applies to the majority of brushless motors and normally does not need to be changed.  Adjust as required if you're using motors with a pole count other than 14 to calculate true motor shaft RPM from ESC's e-field RPM.

> ESC Telemtry Logging and Reporting

Reviewer 2: Telemetry

Author: fixed typo, txs!

- RPM
- Voltage
- Current
- Temperature
- Total Current

The RCOU messages are also written to the onboard logs which hold the requested output level sent to the ESCs expressed as a number from 1000 (meaning stopped) to 2000 (meaning full output).

This data can also be viewed in real-time using a ground station.  If using the Mission Planner go to the Flight Data screen's status tab and look for esc1_rpm.

.. image:: ../../../images/dshot-realtime-esc-telem-in-mp.jpg
    :target: ../_images/dshot-realtime-esc-telem-in-mp.jpg
    :width: 450px

.. note::

   Sending BLHeli32 telemetry data to the GCS requires the telemetry connection use MAVLink2.  ArduPilot uses MAVLink2 by default on the USB port but if another port is used it may be necessary to set the SERIALx_PROTOCOL parameter to 2 (where "x" is the serial port number used for the telemetry connection).

In addition, some telemetry values can be displayed on the integrated :ref:`on-board OSD <common-osd-overview>`, if your autopilot has one.

.. _esc-telemetry-based-battery-monitor:

Use as Battery Monitor
======================

> By setting a battery monitor instance to BLHeli32 ESC  type (for example :ref:`BATT2_MONITOR<BATT2_MONITOR>` = 9), all connected BLHeli32 ESCs with connected telemetry wiring to the configured autopilot serial port, will be aggregated as a single source. The voltages reported will be averaged, the currents totaled, and the consumed current accumulated.

Author: ok txs.  I won't mention that here though 'cuz this page is only concerned with BLHeli.

.. _bidir-dshot:

Bi-directional Dshot
====================

> Newer versions of BLHeli32 (32.7 and higher) and BLHeli_S (16.73 and higher) support returning motor RPM values over the Dshot signal line. Supporting bi-directional Dshot requires exclusive use of one or more DMA channels and thus not all versions of ArduPilot support it. Versions that support bi-directional Dshot natively are `BeastH7`, `BeastF7` and `KakuteF7Mini`, other firmware versions end in "-bdshot" to indicate support for bi-directional Dshot.

Reviewer 2: Also KakuteF4Mini, KakuteH7Mini, BeastH7v2, BeastF7v2, FlywooF745, FlywooF745Nano

Author: cool, I've added these to the list and slightly changed the wording to make it more clear that for other autopilots a special version of ArduPilot needs to be loaded on the autopilot.

Setup
-----

> First ensure that you have an appropriate version of BLHeli32 or BLHeli_S installed on your ESCs. The majority of ESCs do not come pre-installed with these versions. The official 32.7 version of BLHeli32 supports bi-directional Dshot. Official versions of BLHeli_S do not support bi-directional Dshot, you will need to either buy a version from `JESC <https://jflight.net/index.php?route=common/home&language=en-gb>`__ or use the unofficial version from `JazzMaverick <https://github.com/JazzMaverick/BLHeli/tree/JazzMaverick-patch-1/BLHeli_S%20SiLabs/Hex%20files%20%2016.73>`__. If you try and enable bi-directional Dshot with the wrong firmware version then unpredictable motor operation can occur.

Reviewer 2: BlueJay here rather than JazzMaverick

Author: changed to blueJay, txs

.. image:: ../../../images/blheli-version-check.png
    :target: ../_images/blheli-version-check.png
    :width: 450px

Set the following parameters to enable BLHeli32 and BLHeli_S bi-directional Dshot:

> - Set :ref:`SERVO_BLH_AUTO <SERVO_BLH_AUTO>` to 1 to automatically enable pass-through on all outputs configured as motors (e.g. :ref:`SERVOx_FUNCTION <SERVO9_FUNCTION>` = "Motor1", "Motor2", etc) for multicopters and quadplanes or throttle (e.g. those with :ref:`SERVOx_FUNCTION <SERVO9_FUNCTION>` set to 70 ("throttle"), 73 ("throttle left") or 74 ("throttle right")) on rovers.  For most multicopters, quadplanes and rovers this will do the right thing but for planes, you will need to further specify the used outputs as follows:

Reviewer 2: Not required - only required for passthrough

Author: great txs.  Removed SERVO_BLH_AUTO, SERVO_BLH_MASK and SERVO_BLH_OTYPE

  - :ref:`SERVO_BLH_MASK <SERVO_BLH_MASK>` : a bitmap used to enable BLHeli32 pass-through and telemetry support on non-multirotor motors and / or exactly specify which servo outputs you want to enable pass-through and telemetry on (if available in ESC).

  - :ref:`SERVO_BLH_OTYPE<SERVO_BLH_OTYPE>` : This needs to be set to the protocol being used for the DShot protocol being used on those additional outputs if not the same as the normal copter style motor outputs.

> - :ref:`SERVO_BLH_BDMASK <SERVO_BLH_BDMASK>` : a bitmap used to enable BLHeli32 or BLHeli_S bi-directional Dshot support. On flight controllers without IOMCU this would normally be set to 15 to indicate four active channels. On flight controllers with an IOMCU this can be set to 3840 to indicate four active AUX channels (bi-directional Dshot will only work on the AUX outputs). The BeastH7 only supports channels 1 and 4 for bi-directional dshot (mask set to 9).

Author: removed Beast comment.

> - :ref:`SERVO_BLH_OTYPE<SERVO_BLH_OTYPE>` : This needs to be set to the protocol being used for the DShot protocol being used on those additional outputs if not the same as the normal copter style motor outputs.

Reviewer 2: Only if MOT_PWM_TYPE is not set

Author: Txs.  I've removed the SERVO_BLH_OTYPE explanation because I think we only need to specify the setup required that is specific for the bi-directional dshot.  This parameter should have already been set as part of the regular DShot setup.
